Hi, everyone, in this that year, we're going to talk about more extreme methods.
All right, now, before diving into string methods, I want to show you how you can find the index
of any given letter inside a string.
OK, so first off, let's go ahead and let's create a string.
Let's call it pet, and we are going to say Berdy.
The third right?
So this is our strength and strength, of course, could be more than one word.
And let's go ahead and let's consider the logit to let's log it to the console.
That's log pet.
And we have hit the bird.
Now, let's see.
Let's say we want to grab the second index of the strength.
OK, first, I'm going to show you how you can select it.
Then I'm going to explain it to you guys.
So we are going to say console and I want to log it to the console and we're going to say Pat and we
are going to open brackets.
This is the same brackets as we had with arrays.
Right.
So as you guys know, that indexes in JavaScript, they start from zero.
All right.
So they start from zero.
We want to grab the second index and we want to know what is the letter that is associated with this
second index.
And when I say it, we are going to get R and why is that?
So let's come back in our consular log.
So the B is going to be the zero.
That index for the B letter is going to be zero.
This is going to be one.
And this is going to be two.
OK, I'm going to show you another example.
So let's go ahead and let's grab, let's say, the eighth index and we get the E so zero one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven and eight.
Yes.
Spaces are also and there are also considered as like numbers like zero, one, two, three.
OK, there also like I did inside the number of the indices that we want to graph.
OK, let's do one more.
And now let's go ahead and let's find, I don't know, the index of four.
What is the word?
It is why we have zero one, two, three and four.
All right, so there are other methods, there are other ways that we can use to get the index indices
as well.
For example, if I go ahead and if I copied this one down below.
OK.
And let's go ahead and instead of this, we are going to say named length and these methods, they are
associated with length length so we can get indices of any string through the length property of that
string as well.
So now we know we know from our previous lecture that the number that the value of length is always
going to be one more than the value of the than the last index of whatever it is that we are talking
about.
So if the last index of this entire sentence, this entire string is, let's say 12 one less than that,
then length is let's say 12, one less than that is going to be eleven.
So so when we go one less than the length, we get the last index.
OK, so if I go ahead and if I save it, we get not a number.
And the reason for this is because the operation is actually not accurate.
We don't have any named string here.
So I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to replace it with Pat.
But this illustrates what the not a number represents.
It is actually a numeric value.
I know it doesn't show anything, but it is actually a numeric value.
So now when I save it, we still get not a number.
All right.
And the reason for that is this should be inside these brackets.
Let's save it.
And now we get the deal.
All right.
So what does this mean?
It means that we can get the last index by calling the length property.
OK.
And in other words, we can get the index of any string using our negative numbers.
So through these three Consolo logs, we got the index of this string from left to right.
But if we can get the index from right to left as well, and this is negative one.
So negative one is the first last letter.
Negative two is the second last letter.
The eye is going to be the third letter from the last or from the from the other side.
So let's go ahead and check it out for self and then we are going to move on to the methods.
So if I put it, we should get an R, let's do one more and we should get an eye and we do get a nine.
So this is how we can find an index of any given string.
Right now, let's go ahead and let's talk about more string methods.
So let's say you have a string and this method is called Trem Trem method, and it does exactly what
the name suggests.
Let's say you have a string that is that's a song.
You have a variable of song.
And then there you have a lot of space.
It's just shallow, right?
There is a lot of space.
OK, if you go ahead and if you cancel it right.
And let's say song, you're going to get this.
So there is a lot of space here and there is a lot of space here.
What if you want to remove this space?
OK, in that case, what we can do is we just called the trim method.
And because this is a method, we have to provide it with the parentheses.
And now those spaces, they are gone.
Right.
So this is the trim method.
The next method that I want to talk about is the index off method, which is actually.
A case sensitive method, and it does the reverse of what we did here, so here we we wrote a number
and we found the index of any letter associated with that number.
But the index of Metha, it it actually does the opposite of that.
We provided with a letter and it gives us the index, the number for that.
OK, so it is index of.
OK, let me and the method worked here as well, so we have let me bring this back.
So we are going to say Consul Deathlok.
And we are going to grab our pet, right, and we are going to say that index index off.
So what what what is the letter that we want to find the index of?
So let's say we want to find the index of the why.
If I put it there, it says four.
So zero, one, two, three.
And this is and this has an index of four.
So you can find the letter which is associated with the index and you can find the index which is associated
with the letter.
It's super simple.
The next method that I want to talk about is the chart at Method.
OK.
Now, this method tells us what is the letter at that specific index that we provided, right.
So we are just going to go ahead and we are going to say cancel the log and we are going to grab our
pet variable and we are going to say chaar at now.
We want to find out what is the.
Now, keep in mind that here we do not provide a number.
This is a number inside quotations or it means that it is actually a string in JavaScript.
All right.
This is not a number here.
So we want to find out what is the letter at the point of, let's say four.
And it is going to give us why.
So we have zero.
One, two, three.
And this is number four.
OK, so this is the chart at method.
The next method is going to be the slice slice method and it slices our strings.
OK, so by default, if you just go ahead and call it on any string, it is going to slice from the
first.
So we are going to say slice.
So how how many, how many words do we want?
How many letters do we want it to slice?
So let's say we wanted to slice four letters and when we save it and then we just can see it slices
one, two, three and four.
So Bird has four letters and those have been sliced out.
We can provide it with a starting index to slice from and that and in that in that case, we are going
to pass in two arguments.
The first argument is going to be the index at which we want this slicing to start.
Let's say we want it to start at the index of four and continue for like like five.
And we get a Y.
OK, so this is how it actually works and we get a we get a Y.
And the reason for that is because I made I made a mistake.
It's not actually the this is actually the starting index and this is the ending index.
OK, so let's say we want this starting index to be four.
So we have the starting index.
Four is going to be our Y and let's say the ending index should be like five, six, seven, eight,
nine and ten.
Let's put it to ten and let's see what we get.
We get this.
So it has sliced out of this array, this that we have here.
So from the index of four, up until the index of ten, we have these characters inside that string.
The next method that I want to talk about is the split method split.
OK, and it splits apart the strength that we have into multiple strengths.
OK, so what I'm going to do is we are going to say console the lock.
The reason that we do console logs a lot is because it is visual.
We can see what we are doing here.
All right, so we are going to say, Pett, that split.
All right, now, what do we what is the splitting point?
What do we want this to be split at that point?
So we want it to be split at these pieces that we have there.
So for space, I'm just going to provide a space inside these quotations.
And when I say that you guys can see we get an array, this syntax belongs to an array.
Right.
So we got we got we got Berdy, which has an index of zero.
We got there, which has an index of one and bird, which has an index of two.
So this is split.
The next method that I want to talk about is the includes method and it is super simple.
We just check if this string includes anything that we want to look for.
For example, this is an email address when, for example, you have like a passage and inside that
passage you want to look for an email address and you check whether that email address is present there.
OK, so here I'm just going to say it includes.
And I'm going to provide it with the Atkeson, and when I say that and we we get a Boolean and it's
false because we don't have an act inside this bird, the bird, we can go ahead and check if we have
something else.
So let's go ahead and let's see if we have an eye there.
And it's is true.
We do have it there.
And the final method that I want to talk about here is the replace method.
We grab any word inside from our string and we replace it with something else.
So let's go ahead and see it in action.
And we have had to replace don't forget the parentheses.
So now, again, we have two arguments in here.
So the first argument is that the thing that we want to replace so what do we want to replace?
For example, we want to replace this bird.
OK, let's say we want to replace the.
So we want to replace them.
What do we want to replace it with?
We want to replace it with a so we get Berdy a bird.
All right.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.